docs/options.md, before:

---
sidebarDepth: 2
---

# Options

## `include`

- type: `Array<string|RegExp> | string | RegExp`
- default: `[/\.vue$/i]`

## `exclude`

- type: `Array<string|RegExp> | string | RegExp`
- default: `[]`

A minimatch pattern or a regular expression or an array of minimatch patterns or regular expressions.

## `defaultLang`

- type: `{ [key: string]: string }`
- default: `{}`

By default, `<script>` is JavaScript, `<style>` is CSS and `<template>` is HTML but you can have your project defaults.

e.g.: `defaultLang: { script: 'ts' }` would set default `<script>` block language to typescript.

::: warning
`defaultLang` does not set default language in templates for your editor/IDE.
:::


## `customBlocks`

- type: `string[] | ((tag: string) => boolean)`
- default: `() => false`

Include/exclude custom block in final bundle. 
e.g.

``` js
...
 VuePlugin({
   customBlocks: [
     '!docs', // exclude <docs>
     'gql', // include <gql>
     '!*', // exclude everything else
   ]
 })
...
```

## `css`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `true`

Inject CSS in JavaScript. Setting `css: false` would extract styles in a `.css` file.

## `data`

- type: `{ [lang: string]: string | (() => string)}`
- default: `{}`

Prepend content to `<style>` blocks in `.vue` files.

## `compiler`

- type: [VueTemplateCompiler](https://github.com/vuejs/component-compiler-utils#parseparseoptions-sfcdescriptor)
- default: `require('vue-template-compiler')`

Override template parser.

## `compilerParseOptions`

- type: [VueTemplateCompilerParseOptions](https://github.com/vuejs/component-compiler-utils#parseparseoptions-sfcdescriptor)
- default: `undefined`

## `sourceRoot`

- type: string
- default: `process.cwd()`

## `style`

`@vue/component-compiler` options to process `<style>` blocks in SFCs.

### `style.postcssOptions`

- type: `any`
- default: `undefined`

### `style.postcssPlugins`

- type: `any[]`
- default: `undefined`

### `style.postcssCleanOptions`

- type: `object`
- default: `{}`

::: tip
To disable clean css, set `style.postcssCleanOptions` to `{ disabled: true }`
:::

### `style.postcssModulesOptions`

- type: `object`
- default:

  ``` js
  {
    generateScopedName: '[path][local]-[hash:base64:4]'
  }
  ```

### `style.preprocessOptions`

- type: `{ [lang: string]: object }`
- default: `{}`

### `style.trim`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `true`

## `template`

`@vue/component-compiler` options to process `<template>` blocks in SFCs.

### `template.compiler`

- type: `VueTemplateCompiler`
- default: `require('vue-template-compiler')`

Override the default compiler used to compile `<template>` blocks in single file components.

### `template.compilerOptions`

- type: `Object`
- default: `{}`

Options for the template compiler. When using the default vue-template-compiler, you can use this option to add custom compiler directives, modules, or discard whitespaces between template tags with `{ preserveWhitespace: false }`.

See [`vue-template-compiler` options reference](https://github.com/vuejs/vue/tree/dev/packages/vue-template-compiler#options).

### `template.transformAssetUrls`

- type: `{ [tag: string]: string | Array<string> }`
- default:

  ``` js
  {
    video: ['src', 'poster'],
    source: 'src',
    img: 'src',
    image: 'xlink:href'
  }
  ```

During template compilation, the compiler can transform certain attributes, such as `src` URLs, into `require` calls, so that the target asset can be handled by webpack. For example, `<img src="./foo.png">` will attempt to locate the file `./foo.png` on your file system and include it as a dependency of your bundle.

### `template.isProduction`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production' || process.env.BUILD === 'production'`

Force production mode, which prohibits the plugin from emitting code that is development-only.

### `template.optimizeSSR`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `process.env.VUE_ENV === 'server'`

Enable Vue 2.4 SSR compilation optimization that compiles part of the vdom trees returned by render functions into plain strings, which improves SSR performance. In some cases you might want to explicitly turn it off because the resulting render functions can only be used for SSR and cannot be used for client-side rendering or testing.

### `template.transpileOptions`

- type: `Object`
- default: `{}`

Configure ES2015+ to ES5 transpiling options for the generated render function code. The [transpiler](https://github.com/vuejs/vue-template-es2015-compiler) is a fork of [Buble](https://github.com/Rich-Harris/buble), so consult the available options [here](https://buble.surge.sh/guide/#using-the-javascript-api).

The template render functions compilation supports a special transform `stripWith` (enabled by default), which removes the `with` usage in generated render functions to make them strict-mode compliant.

## `normalizer`

- type: `string`
- default: `undefined`

## `styleInjector`

- type: `string`
- default: `undefined`

## `styleInjectorSSR`

- type: `string`
- default: `undefined`

## `beforeAssemble` __(dangerous)__

- type: `(descriptor: DescriptorCompileResult) => DescriptorCompileResult`
- default: `undefined`

A hook before blocks of SFC are assembled together.

Commit message:

fix: #282 add shadow mode (#376)
* added shadow mode

* added shadow mode option

* added shadow mode test

* fix test

* added document

docs/options.md, after:

---
sidebarDepth: 2
---

# Options

## `include`

- type: `Array<string|RegExp> | string | RegExp`
- default: `[/\.vue$/i]`

## `exclude`

- type: `Array<string|RegExp> | string | RegExp`
- default: `[]`

A minimatch pattern or a regular expression or an array of minimatch patterns or regular expressions.

## `defaultLang`

- type: `{ [key: string]: string }`
- default: `{}`

By default, `<script>` is JavaScript, `<style>` is CSS and `<template>` is HTML but you can have your project defaults.

e.g.: `defaultLang: { script: 'ts' }` would set default `<script>` block language to typescript.

::: warning
`defaultLang` does not set default language in templates for your editor/IDE.
:::


## `customBlocks`

- type: `string[] | ((tag: string) => boolean)`
- default: `() => false`

Include/exclude custom block in final bundle. 
e.g.

``` js
...
 VuePlugin({
   customBlocks: [
     '!docs', // exclude <docs>
     'gql', // include <gql>
     '!*', // exclude everything else
   ]
 })
...
```

## `css`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `true`

Inject CSS in JavaScript. Setting `css: false` would extract styles in a `.css` file.

## `data`

- type: `{ [lang: string]: string | (() => string)}`
- default: `{}`

Prepend content to `<style>` blocks in `.vue` files.

## `compiler`

- type: [VueTemplateCompiler](https://github.com/vuejs/component-compiler-utils#parseparseoptions-sfcdescriptor)
- default: `require('vue-template-compiler')`

Override template parser.

## `compilerParseOptions`

- type: [VueTemplateCompilerParseOptions](https://github.com/vuejs/component-compiler-utils#parseparseoptions-sfcdescriptor)
- default: `undefined`

## `sourceRoot`

- type: string
- default: `process.cwd()`

## `style`

`@vue/component-compiler` options to process `<style>` blocks in SFCs.

### `style.postcssOptions`

- type: `any`
- default: `undefined`

### `style.postcssPlugins`

- type: `any[]`
- default: `undefined`

### `style.postcssCleanOptions`

- type: `object`
- default: `{}`

::: tip
To disable clean css, set `style.postcssCleanOptions` to `{ disabled: true }`
:::

### `style.postcssModulesOptions`

- type: `object`
- default:

  ``` js
  {
    generateScopedName: '[path][local]-[hash:base64:4]'
  }
  ```

### `style.preprocessOptions`

- type: `{ [lang: string]: object }`
- default: `{}`

### `style.trim`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `true`

## `template`

`@vue/component-compiler` options to process `<template>` blocks in SFCs.

### `template.compiler`

- type: `VueTemplateCompiler`
- default: `require('vue-template-compiler')`

Override the default compiler used to compile `<template>` blocks in single file components.

### `template.compilerOptions`

- type: `Object`
- default: `{}`

Options for the template compiler. When using the default vue-template-compiler, you can use this option to add custom compiler directives, modules, or discard whitespaces between template tags with `{ preserveWhitespace: false }`.

See [`vue-template-compiler` options reference](https://github.com/vuejs/vue/tree/dev/packages/vue-template-compiler#options).

### `template.transformAssetUrls`

- type: `{ [tag: string]: string | Array<string> }`
- default:

  ``` js
  {
    video: ['src', 'poster'],
    source: 'src',
    img: 'src',
    image: 'xlink:href'
  }
  ```

During template compilation, the compiler can transform certain attributes, such as `src` URLs, into `require` calls, so that the target asset can be handled by webpack. For example, `<img src="./foo.png">` will attempt to locate the file `./foo.png` on your file system and include it as a dependency of your bundle.

### `template.isProduction`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production' || process.env.BUILD === 'production'`

Force production mode, which prohibits the plugin from emitting code that is development-only.

### `template.optimizeSSR`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `process.env.VUE_ENV === 'server'`

Enable Vue 2.4 SSR compilation optimization that compiles part of the vdom trees returned by render functions into plain strings, which improves SSR performance. In some cases you might want to explicitly turn it off because the resulting render functions can only be used for SSR and cannot be used for client-side rendering or testing.

### `template.transpileOptions`

- type: `Object`
- default: `{}`

Configure ES2015+ to ES5 transpiling options for the generated render function code. The [transpiler](https://github.com/vuejs/vue-template-es2015-compiler) is a fork of [Buble](https://github.com/Rich-Harris/buble), so consult the available options [here](https://buble.surge.sh/guide/#using-the-javascript-api).

The template render functions compilation supports a special transform `stripWith` (enabled by default), which removes the `with` usage in generated render functions to make them strict-mode compliant.

## `shadowDom`

- type: `boolean`
- default: `false`

Compiled the component will be mounted into Shadow DOM. In this mode, instead of the document head, the styles of the component will be injected into this.$root.$options.shadowRoot.

## `normalizer`

- type: `string`
- default: `undefined`

## `styleInjector`

- type: `string`
- default: `undefined`

## `styleInjectorSSR`

- type: `string`
- default: `undefined`

## `beforeAssemble` __(dangerous)__

- type: `(descriptor: DescriptorCompileResult) => DescriptorCompileResult`
- default: `undefined`

A hook before blocks of SFC are assembled together.
